Add stocks tutorial (#150)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/tutorials/analyze-intraday-stocks/explore-stocks-data.md

Let's see how it's done!

## Install Plotly and Pandas

To get started with data exploration, you need to install a couple of tools first:

* Pandas, to query and structure the data
* Plotly, to create visualizations quickly

**Install both**
```bash
pip install plotly pandas
```

When you have those installed, you need to open a new Python file, or use a Jupyter notebook to 
start exploring the dataset.

## Establish database connection

Use the configuration file you created earlier with `psycopg2` to create a database connection object:

```python
import config, psycopg2
conn = psycopg2.connect(database=config.DB_NAME,
                        host=config.DB_HOST,
                        user=config.DB_USER,
                        password=config.DB_PASS,
                        port=config.DB_PORT)
```

In each data exploration script below, you need to reference this connection object to be able to 
query the database.

## Generate stock market insights

Let's start off analyzing trading volumes, then have a look at weekly price points, and finally, dig deep on 

> price changes.

Reviewer: Add to the end of this line:

"The results of the queries shown are visualized in (what visualization tool are you using?)."

Author: https://github.com/timescale/docs/pull/150/commits/6f26ecaec1da60757fc45c4c2dba2dd749700b25

<highlight type="tip">
Let these queries serve as inspiration to you, and feel free to change things up, like the analyzed *time frame*, the *symbol* or other parts of the query. Have fun!
</highlight>

1. Which symbols have the highest transaction volumes?
2. How did Apple's trading volume change over time?
3. How did Apple's stock price change over time?
4. Which symbols had the highest weekly gains?
5. Weekly FAANG prices over time?
6. Weekly price changes of Apple, Facebook, Google?
7. Distribution of daily price changes of Amazon and Zoom
8.  Apple 15-min candlestick chart

### 1. Which symbols have the highest transaction volumes?

Let's generate a bar chart that shows the most traded symbols in the last 14 days:

```python
query = """
    SELECT symbol, sum(trading_volume) AS volume
    FROM stocks_intraday
    WHERE time < now() - INTERVAL '{bucket}'
    GROUP BY symbol
    ORDER BY volume DESC
    LIMIT 5
""".format(bucket="14 day")
df = pd.read_sql(query, conn)
fig = px.bar(df, x='symbol', y='volume', title="Most traded symbols in the last 14 days")
fig.show()
```

> ![most traded symbols](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tutorials/intraday-stock-analysis/most_traded_symbols.png)

Reviewer 2: Broken link to me.

Reviewer 2: Looks like the actual rendered link is different than this one: https://assets.timescale.com/images/tutorials/intraday-stock-analysis/most_traded_symbols.png

# 3. Explore stock market data

Now that you've successfully collected 1-min intraday stock data, it's time to have some fun and explore the 
data.

> Because of the high granularity of the dataset, there are numerous ways to explore it. For example, you could analyze stock prices and volumes on a minute-by-minute basis. With TimescaleDB, you could also bucket records into custom intervals (e.g. 2-min or 15-min) fairly easily and use TimescaleDB aggregating functions. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because of the high granularity of the dataset, there are numerous ways to explore it. For example, you could analyze stock prices and volumes on a minute-by-minute basis. With TimescaleDB, you could also bucket records into custom intervals (e.g. 2-min or 15-min) using TimescaleDB aggregate functions. 
```

                        port=config.DB_PORT)
```

In each data exploration script below, you will need to reference this connection object to be able to 
query the database.

## Generate stock market insights

Let's start off analyzing trading volumes, then have a look at weekly price points, and finally, dig deep on 
price changes.

<highlight type="tip">
Let these queries serve as inspiration to you, and feel free to change things up, like the analyzed *time frame*, the *symbol* or other parts of the query. Have fun!
</highlight>

1. Which symbols have the highest transaction volumes?
2. How did Apple's trading volume change over time?
3. How did Apple's stock price change over time?
4. Which symbols had the highest weekly gains?
5. Weekly FAANG prices over time?
6. Weekly price changes of Apple, Facebook, Google?
7. Distribution of daily price changes of Amazon and Zoom
8.  Apple 15-min candlestick chart

### 1. Which symbols have the highest transaction volumes?

Let's generate a bar chart which shows the most traded symbols in the last 14 days.

```python
query = """
    SELECT symbol, sum(trading_volume) AS volume
    FROM stocks_intraday

>     WHERE (now() - date(time)) < INTERVAL '{time_frame}'

Reviewer 3: More typically you'd do:

```suggestion
    WHERE time < now() - INTERVAL '{time_frame}'
```
Having date math on the left side of the predicate will typically exclude index usage.

    GROUP BY symbol
    ORDER BY volume DESC
    LIMIT 5
""".format(time_frame="14 day")
df = pd.read_sql(query, conn)
fig = px.bar(df, x='symbol', y='volume', title="Most traded symbols in the last 14 days")
fig.show()
```

![most traded symbols](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tutorials/intraday-stock-analysis/most_traded_symbols.png)

### 2. How did Apple's trading volume change over time?

Now let's try a similar query focused on the daily trading volume of one symbol (e.g. 'AAPL'). 

```python
query = """

>     SELECT time_bucket('{time_frame}', time) AS time_frame, sum(trading_volume) AS volume

Reviewer 3: I honestly can't think of a different term ATM, but "time_frame" seems like the wrong term here. In most examples we use something like "bucket", although I'm not sure that's the best either. If anything, this is the _start_ of the bucket... so it's not really a time frame (start and end.... more like a range). 

Anyone have thoughts? (and whatever we decide should be consistent throughout)

Author: TBH, I just started using time_frame at first then sticked to it... but if we use bucket elsewhere, it should be used here as well imo

Author: https://github.com/timescale/docs/pull/150/commits/7c22159becad063bcb4ab076627c9f7b5b4e07c4

```python
query = """
   SELECT symbol, time_frame, max((closing_price-opening_price)/closing_price) AS price_change_pct
    FROM ( 
        SELECT 
        symbol, 
        time_bucket('{time_frame}}', time) AS time_frame, 
        first(price_open, time) AS opening_price, 
        last(price_close, time) AS closing_price
        FROM stocks_intraday
        WHERE symbol IN {symbols}
        GROUP BY time_frame, symbol
    ) s
    GROUP BY symbol, s.time_frame
    ORDER BY time_frame
""".format(time_frame="7 days", symbols="('AAPL', 'FB', 'GOOG')")
df = pd.read_sql(query, conn)
figure = px.line(df, x="time_frame", y="price_change_pct", color="symbol", title="Apple, Facebook, Google weekly price changes")
figure = figure.update_layout(yaxis={'tickformat': '.2%'})
figure.show()
```

![weekly price changes](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tutorials/intraday-stock-analysis/weekly_price_changes.png)

### 7. Distribution of daily price changes of Amazon and Zoom

Keep analyzing price changes, generate a scatter chart to see the distribution of daily price changes of Amazon 

> and Zoom.

Reviewer: I'd also add a sentence after with something like: "Analyzing this data will enable you to [do what?]"

> and Zoom.

Author: https://github.com/timescale/docs/pull/150/commits/5f4eb504d0518056afc6b07558359cb6f75b7da9

Now generate a table containing the symbols with the biggest weekly gains:

```python
query = """
    SELECT symbol, bucket, max((closing_price-opening_price)/closing_price*100) AS price_change_pct
    FROM ( 
        SELECT 
        symbol, 
        time_bucket('{bucket}', time) AS bucket, 
        first(price_open, time) AS opening_price, 
        last(price_close, time) AS closing_price
        FROM stocks_intraday
        GROUP BY bucket, symbol
    ) s
    GROUP BY symbol, s.bucket
    ORDER BY price_change_pct {orderby}
    LIMIT 5
""".format(bucket="7 days", orderby="DESC")
df = pd.read_sql(query, conn)
print(df)
```

|symbol |bucket     |price_change_pct |
|-------|-----------|-----------------|
|ZM     |2021-06-07 |24.586495        |
|TSLA   |2021-01-04 |18.280314        |
|BA     |2021-03-08 |17.745225        |
|SNAP   |2021-02-01 |16.149649        |
|TSLA   |2021-03-08 |15.842941        |

`price_change_pct` shows the price change that happened between the start and end of the week.

`bucket` shows (the first day of) the week.

<highlight type="tip">
Change `orderby` to "ASC" to query the biggest losses.
</highlight>

### 5. Weekly FAANG prices over time?

> Let's see a line chart with the FAANG weekly stock prices:

Reviewer 3: I feel like it's worth spelling out somewhere what FAANG is. I mean, I guess if people are going to do a stock trading app they probably know the big 5 (and I realize it's in the query... but in a different order...). Anyway, just a thought.

Author: https://github.com/timescale/docs/pull/150/commits/8eb4e978a2e666b407e839672db56e44d16c7322
